---
title: "aidos lab"
---

{{< figure src="logo_no_text.svg" width="128" class="center" >}}

# Welcome

Welcome to the website of the aidos lab at [Helmholtz.AI](https://www.helmholtz.ai). We are interested
in discovering hidden structures in complex data sets, specifically
those arising in healthcare applications.

Our primary research interests are situated at the intersection of
**geometrical deep learning**, **topological machine learning**, and
**representation learning**. We want to make use of geometrical and
topological information to imbue neural networks with more information
in their respective tasks, leading to better and more robust outcomes.

Nevertheless, 'theory without practice is empty,' which is why we also
develop methods to address challenges in biomedicine or healthcare
applications. Of particular interest are the analysis of MRI data sets
to improve our understanding of human cognition and neurodegenerative
disorders, as well as the analysis of multivariate clinical time series
to detect and prevent the onset of sepsis or myocardial ischemia.

# People

Coming soon! Learn more about [joining us]({{< relref "#join-us" >}})
below.

# About

'aidos' has two meanings that complement each other well. The first
meaning originates from the Greek word 'αἰδώς,' which means 'awe' or
'reverence.' This is indicative of the awe that we feel when we work
on challenging problems in healthcare research, aiming to improve this
world using machine learning. The second meaning refers to our mission
statement, viz. to develop **a**rtificial **i**ntelligence for
**d**iscovering **o**ccult **s**tructures.

# Join us

Thanks for your interest in our group! Why not consider joining the
team?

We are not interested in 'leader-board science' or 'chasing the
state-of-the-art' in a table. That is *not* to say that we are not
interested in producing relevant methods! Our overarching goal is to
produce excellent science using methods whose performance we can
*explain* and *understand*. This necessitates comprehensive comparisons
with other methods, ablation studies, and many additional tricks to
figure out what is going on. If this sounds enticing to you, we would
love to hear from you! 
